Good morning. Welcome.
Good morning.
Good to have you here.
Thank you. Nice to be here.
We will look forward to a good conversation.
So are we.
You're the first of the three.
Perfect.
Right.
Welcome. Thank you also for responding to some of the
advanced questions.
But I think what we'll do is, as we usually do, hand it over to you for, say, five
minutes or so.
We've already had a bit of a session just sort of talking with some
pre-questions with the
auditors.
And so we'll open it up to you, and then there will be plenty of questions.
Many thanks. Tena koutou katoa. For those who
don't know, I'm Scott St John, the chair of Mercury.
Stu Hamilton, who's the CEO. I suspect
at the margin all of us will be looking to get
slightly different things out of today.
But for me, what I'm really hoping we achieve
is that
I can help you
get to know the Mercury that I know.
The company is an enterprise that
New Zealand can be very, very proud of.
And
it's a facilitator not just of an important service, but
also of economic growth in New Zealand.
We operate intergenerational partnerships with iwi.
We're part of an industry that's investing $10 billion over
the next five years in generation capacity.
And for our part in that,
we're in the middle of a three-project build to the tune of circa
$1 billion of new capacity.
Resilience is obviously a really important part of the equation.
And
in that regard, we've recently announced a circa $700 million
refurbishment of three of our eight dams on
the Waikato system.
We strive to deliver on processes that
support our most vulnerable customers.
We do all of this in a disciplined way on behalf of our
owners, which includes the government,
and many hundreds of thousands of New Zealand KiwiSaver investors.
We will probably in the discussion talk about the trilemma, which
is the necessary link between
sustainability, reliability,
and affordability in a good system.
And we aspire to keep building. We have detailed
plans out to 2030.
We have plans out to 2035, and
we're actively exploring options beyond that.
And we're also working very hard to make
geothermal
a more important proportion of our generation
stack. Stu.
Thanks, Scott. Kia ora koutou. It's great to be back here for a second year.
A year ago, though, when I was here to address the committee, it was on the back of
five record dry months. We had gas and firming
challenges, and that really brought the industry into stark focus.
Gas suppliers challenges certainly remain, but now we have tools being implemented
and considered, such as the strategic energy reserve at the Huntly Power Station,
and we're working to replace gas in the firming mix.
I'm also pleased to report that we're going into winter with lakes at healthy
storage levels. In fact, Lake Taupō is 200% of average
level at this time of the year. And as Scott touched on, Mercury is investing
significantly in renewable energy for New Zealand.
In FY25, over half, in fact, 56% of our
earnings were reinvested into new and existing renewable generation
assets, and we're continuing that momentum through to
FY26. We're on track to deliver our plan of adding three and
a half terawatt hour of new generation by 2030.
That's nearly 10% additional capacity for New Zealand.
That's enough to power an additional 430,000 homes.
We mainly do that through leveraging our strengths in wind and geothermal
development. We're building infrastructure at a pace that's
25% faster than the think big period, with no government
funding, and the scale of our build is demonstrated in one of the pictures that we
sent around that show that we now have just recently built the second
tallest structure in New Zealand.
That's a wind turbine at Kawakawa up in Dargaville.
As Scott mentioned, we also have plans to continue to invest in our hydro system.
We've committed to spending $590 million in our next
three dams, and added to that spend at
Arapuni Dam, it's nearly $700 million over the next decade.
We're also enabling our customers to shift consumption and lower their cost, and
that is a key focus. We're due to launch time of use plans in the next
couple of months, and we're on track to have 50,000 hot water
cylinders under smart management this winter, which is equivalent of about
20 megawatts.
We'll also continue to provide additional support to customers in need, from
tailored support and partnership with community organizations, providing
material support to social retailers to help them continue their important work,
and broadening our support beyond our own customers.
In the industrial space, we continue to enter long-term contracts, which
provide businesses certainty of cost and a guaranteed fuel source for their
operations and also give us confidence to continue to invest in
renewables.
This investment is key to a bright future for New Zealand, and as Scott
noted, given the opportunities ahead of us, we want to continue to work
constructively with industry, with government, to ensure that this future
delivers the best possible outcomes for consumers and for New
ZealandThank you very much. I know you want to get to questions.
Thanks, Scott. Thanks, Jeff. Right. Okay. We'll start. I'll go to Megan.
I'll take say three or four, and then I'll go to someone else.
So, yeah.
Scott, you're next, and then yeah, we'll keep it circulating round.
Yep. I'll stick on the theme for this one.
Look, thank you very much, and thank you for the materials that you've
provided to the committee. They're really comprehensive, so thank you for that.
I just want to start off with the level playing field measures and the work that
the EA is doing in that area. So you've
described the non-discrimination regime
that's being proposed, and yet is not suited to the New
Zealand generation market. What is it about the New Zealand
electricity market that you think means it doesn't deserve
the same protections against those discriminations that apply in other
network sectors in New Zealand?
Yeah, so I believe we are absolutely working through the non-discrimination rules-
Yeah
... that have been put in place by the EA.
We're working through that now with the board to make sure that we're compliant
with the requirements. I guess it goes further to the
commentary that's around often at the moment in terms of the split of the vertical-
Mm-hmm
... the aggregation that exists currently.
So I think from a, the non-discriminary pricing regime,
we're happy to progress that as has been proposed by the EA and
the Comcom through the energy task force.
It's really how far you take it in terms of vertical desegregation, and that's the
kind of key thing for us that we talk to,
saying that there's significant benefit of having the generation and the retail
components of the business together.
So you're not opposed to an
ASX-traded product as opposed to an
ATC, an OTC rather?
We... Yes, we're supportive of both.
Okay.
So actually, we are very active in trading,
setting market making when it comes to-
Great
... ASX futures. The EA has just come out recently looking at
putting in place a super peak product.
Again, we've advocated for that, so we're supportive of it, uh, and believe
that-
Mm
... that has a key part to play, as does over the counter trading as
well.
Because you have argued in some of your submissions that
mandating an updated OTC
code of conduct instead of the non-discrimination
regime would be preferable. And I was just wondering
if you could say
what are the specific prohibitions in the proposed code
that you'd remove, and what ones would you want put in its place?
Yes. So I have to get... If that goes into the detail-
Yeah
... I have to come with specific detail for you.
Okay.
I'm very happy to... Yeah.
Yeah, no, that would be really good.
Yeah.
Because I think we've got two clear kind of different paths there.
One is the bilateral arrangements-
Yep. Yep
... between the gen tailers and the independent retailers.
Yep.
And one is an ASX-
Yep
... market making power. Because I guess one of the things is we have had for
decades now, the independent retailers saying that
the OTC products aren't delivering the fairness
they want to see, which is actually cheaper power bills for consumers.
So I just wondered, if you are advocating for the continuation of a
more bilateral OTC model,
what you think is going to be different in the coming decades than we've seen in
terms of the independent retailers' experience over the last
few decades?
Yeah. Yeah. I think, so certainly if there's a level of detail we need to get into,
we can-
Yeah
... certainly provide that to you.
Yeah.
I think from our perspective, there's good trading that goes on in the
ASX at the moment. We advocated for a super peak product which provides a
level of risk management for different customers that wasn't there in the past.
Mm-hmm.
And that's something we certainly advocated for.
Okay. I'll come back with other ones.
Can we just, if there are other questions, I think Simon, you put your hand up
there. Scott, do you have questions in that area too?
Because I know that's an area of interest to you.
But let's get that bit, that particular bit dealt with and then we'll move on to
other things.
I've got a primary question.
No, that's fine. I think we're going to come-
Can I just ask you then to, just one question because I...
There is a question which we asked, and thank you for your responses to
pre-questions,
which is the, you've got potential positive effects, the splitting
ownership of generation from retail.
Derailing of renewable, the negative effects, you've got derailing of renewable
generation boom.
Can you just walk us through how and why that would be a
problem?
So sorry, just repeat-
Where one of the answers to the splitting
ownership of generation and retail, you said, well, it could derail,
essentially investment in new generation.
Just walk us through why that would be.
Fundamentally it comes down to the best way to
make sure that we're investing at a pace necessary to support New Zealand's growth
is to create certainty in the market.
If you look at the sort of 20 years that existed between
2005 and...
2002 to 2022, there was a significant
amount of uncertainty in the market because demand was pretty flat for 20 years
in effect. We had the risk of TY
being there, not there
from someone sitting in the seat.
So yes, so certainly a TY was at risk as well.
My previous role was to see New Zealand Aluminium Smelter.
And so
That's why I'm laughing.
Yes, that's why So the risk was really there in terms of what's happening in the
market. And if you've got significant risk with big loads that could come
in or go out,
that creates uncertainty to invest because we're spending billions of dollars
in assets that are here for 20, 30, 40 years.
So the best thing for us to do is to have certainty to guarantee that when we spend
it, you know that you're going to get the return over that time.
And so the thing we really talk to there is if there's significant changes
to market settings, to regulatory
settings, really creates uncertainty which can chill
investment. We sort of saw that a little bit when we
talk about something like an Onslow or other things that could be
significantly big impacts on the market, that can have an impact
in terms of chilling. So the main thing for us is to make sure that changes
are well signaled, are evidence-basedAnd are created in
a way which enable us to understand those impacts.
And with that in place, we'll keep building at the pace that we are.
So essentially, what you're arguing there is that if you build
something, you also know that you've got customers because you've got your own
customers as opposed to having to go and find somebody else's.
Yep.
Then you've got a reasonable knowledge that you're going to actually be able to
sell the power.
Correct.
Yeah. And we're yet to see any evidence
that that separation would deliver better outcomes for customers.
But what we can see is the clear link between demand and investment.
Scott, same issue, and then we'll go to-
Same issue
... and then I'll go to Primary over.
Yeah. No, I do have other questions, but just to follow up on that point, I guess,
to the point about certainty, we have had the proposition that the structural
separation
is something that is desirable from a
number of perspectives across Parliament for a couple of years.
So that's been well signaled that that might be
coming.
Does that talk to your point about understanding where the
evolution of the energy sector should go, or do you think that
really what we should be doing is simply
not doing too much and keeping things as they
are
when we have
the energy crisis that we've got at the moment and when we have people who just
can't afford to heat?
Yeah.
I think certainly acknowledge that energy cost is
an issue in New Zealand, and we need to do more in that space.
And so whether that
would come back to electricity costs or fuel costs, there's definitely an
impact on New Zealanders, both businesses and households.
So definitely acknowledge that.
What we're saying is that if we look at the proposal, which is purely
how do we split up the gentailers,
we need to come back to work out what problem are we trying to solve.
And if the problem is trying to come up with
affordable, secure, renewable, or sustainable energy,
I don't believe, and we don't believe, that actually the splitting of the
gentailers is the answer to that problem.
And the reason why that we see that gentailer model being quite
successful, and a number of reports have been conducted that suggest that
the market is working well, it's got some areas to improve in, but it's working
well. The gentailer model basically sets out to say
it really is a way of producing lowest cost,
and smoothing a price out for consumers.
The reason for that is in New Zealand, our
electricity system is largely hydro-dominated.
And it's quite small amounts of storage in hydro.
So that means you can get quite large swings in seasonal
factors on hydro, which can have quite large swings in the
wholesale price of electricity.
That means that if you're a retailer, you actually want to have normally quite
short-term contracts to manage your risk.
That's almost against the generation side of the business, which wants to have
quite long-term contracts to manage, as we just talked
about, the risk of investing for decades.
And so when you have those two mismatches, a good way to manage that is through
vertical integration.
Sup on that. So, my question wasn't really about the merits or not of
structural separation. It's around your point about
creating certainty in the market, and
I think we could
argue the point that
by spending a couple of years fighting the idea of structural
separation or of level playing field measures,
that also creates uncertainty in the market rather than
accepting that we do need to create a market that actually
works. And I think this is where we need the
participation of everyone
to understand that an evolution for electrification is
necessary.
Mm-hmm.
Has to be done. The way we do it, we're always going to come
across with various opinions and
proving the case will be in the doing of the case.
So we do need to accept that there are changes
underway.
If we continue to oppose any change, we
don't make any progress. And I guess that's-
Yeah, just a quick question then, Scott
... the question is if we're going to create certainty,
can't we do it through those discussions formally
rather than simple opposing?
I'd agree. So
certainly we are absolutely up for having that discussion.
I think the issue we have is when people come up with a solution that doesn't
necessarily resolve the problem, and to really understand what problem we're trying
to solve and what are the best things to-
So look, this doesn't answer your question, but through my eyes, the
whole of the Western world's got this infrastructural deficit
issue. We're
here in a city that's perhaps in the eye of that storm.
What I would argue is that the industry structure that we have
is actually delivering for New Zealand in terms of
the infrastructural build that you actually need to see.
Adding uncertainty is not accretive to that.
I think that is maybe the question you were asking.
Okay. I'm going to go to Saps here and...
So when you talk about affordability or affordable and
sustainable, how do you define affordable
electricity for an ordinary household today?
And do you believe your current prices meet the standard?
Good question. And ultimately it comes down to there's two things we look
at. Are we competitive from a global perspective?
But that doesn't necessarily mean it's affordable for New Zealanders.
So when you look at the power prices in New Zealand, we are in the best top
10 from an affordability perspective compared to all the
OECD countries. That's both for household prices and
for small businesses and industrial prices.
So if that's the measure, then we're doing really well.
That doesn't necessarily mean it's affordable for New Zealanders.
If you look at the bill that households get, and you
break that down to the components of it, at the moment, the bill that
a household gets, about $3 per day-Is the
actual electrons that have been produced to go to the household.
So it's $3 a day to generate the electricity going to a household.
That's what it costs at the moment.
By the time you add on transmission, distribution, other costs, it adds up to about
$8 a day.
Now, if you look at over the last few years, prices have been going up higher than
they have previously. A large component of that has been associated with
distribution and transmission costs.
So our job is to make sure that where we are, we have control in
terms of the electrons being produced.
We are producing enough power and building enough power stations
to enable that price to stay pretty flat.
So wait, when you mentioned the breakdown just now, what profit margin are
you targeting, and how much influence do shareholders' return
expectation have on pricing decisions?
So we have
a set of pricing principles that guide what we do in terms
of both our mainly retail prices but also to industrial prices.
That means that we largely pass through lines and distribution costs to our
customers. When you look at the total amount of money that we make,
over half of that goes back into reinvestment in new assets
and existing assets. Another 25% of it
goes to tax and to debt repayment, which means that you're
really left with 25% of what we make being available to our
owners in terms of the returns that they expect on a $10 billion
business.
So is there any specific example or decision you make
when affordability was prioritized over profit?
Sorry.
Any, when you're making a decision whether electricity
affordability-
Yeah
... was prioritized over the profit.
If we build an asset,
if we build a wind farm, we're by and large sourcing that
wind farm in the international market, and it
costs
what it costs. We have to bring that here.
That has to meet our investment hurdles.
If it doesn't meet the investment hurdle, it will not get
built.
Megan.
So a 25% return on an investment would probably
largely, in most sectors, be regarded
as an aggressive strategy in terms of that.
So I guess my question is, we've got lakes at record highs.
Sorry, so it's not 25%-
Well, that was what he said
... it's not 25% return on investment.
Okay. So-
It's of the money that we make in the year-
Yeah
... half of it is reinvested.
Right. Yeah.
25%, and then 25 cents left over as free cash that is-
25% of profit.
Yeah. So, okay. So
I've just got two subs in.
So you're saying that 25% of your profits
are being reinvested into new generation?
No. 50% of our profits are being reinvested back into new generation.
Okay.
Another 25% goes into tax and debt repayment, leaving
25% that's left over for distribution to our owners.
Yeah. So 25% of the income coming in
is being redistributed back to owners.
No.
No. Of net profit.
Yeah, of the profit. Yeah.
Yeah.
No, that's different.
What I'm saying is that in most industries, this would be regarded as an
aggressive strategy. My question is, we've got record
hydro lakes at the moment, where levels in the hydro
lakes.
You've got a plan in terms of your reinvestment in terms of new
generation. Why are consumers not seeing falling power prices?
So if you're a
consumer who is a small medium enterprise that is
on spot price exposure, that is coming down.
If you see the prices at three years out at the moment,
it's gone from about $180 middle of last year, now they're down to
about $130. So definitely the forward curve for power prices is coming down,
and that's representative of a sense of the amount that we're building and
also the risk that's coming down as well. So that's definitely an impact.
What we have in New Zealand, though,
99% of customers are fixed in some form of contracts.
Yeah.
And so that does two... Does the main thing of smoothing those
things out. So whilst the power price in August of 2024
jumped up to $800 per megawatt hour,
99% of customers didn't see that. And so what happens is you have a
smoothed impact, and that smoothed impact happens on the up as well
as on the down. And so you'll see that the forward curve is coming down,
and it'll start to flow through to smoothed contracts.
Yeah. And when will-
And just it's important to get both sides of this.
In that year, in the dry year that Stuart is talking about,
we don't like that.
Yeah.
We get hurt. Our net profit after tax that year
was $1 million.
Mm.
Yep.
So my question is, when will consumers start to see this flow
through in terms of them having reduced power bills, noting
that the EA this week is saying that they are looking
at the charges that the generators, we all
understand the impact that transmission and distribution has in the power bill,
but the EA has specifically said it's going to look at gen
tailers and the way those prices are being passed through.
When can consumers expect to start seeing this?
So yeah, so the work that the EA has announced this week is normal.
This is what you expect a regulator to be doing.
They've done it a couple of years ago, doing it again now.
That's looking at the whole of the gen tailer bill, which does include transmission
distribution as well. So we're certainly participating in that.
But it does come down to, again, the electricity bill that a household
receives has a number of those components in it.
And over the last couple of years, well over half of that increase has been
caused by transmission distribution.
Just noting this week that EA has said they understand what's happening with
distribution and transmission.
Yeah.
They're particularly interested in the generation aspect of it.
Yep. So we'll share that. But basically, the differences that
exist are
modal, so depending on where you are in New Zealand, as well as the makeup of that
bill. So you should expect to see that over the next
few years, the contribution from alliance charges and
distribution chargeDoes start to come down because they are actually locked in
place by the Commerce Commission in terms of what those prices look
like. And then if wholesale prices continue to stay falling, then
that will start to flow through in terms of the ultimate cost that consumers see,
both industrial and household.
So I'll go to Scott in a sec, but so what we would expect to see, you
will start coming... I mean, we're all used to, coming out with what's
our power company telling us the power price is going to go up.
So you're telling us that in the next two, three years, we're going to start seeing
notices coming from our power companies telling us the power price is going to go
down.
Well, I can't predict that power prices will go up or down.
Oh, hang on. Well, that's what you'd like.
All I can say is that we have to manage the investment that needs to keep
taking place in New Zealand as well.
Understand.
So that is a factor we need to take into account.
We're in a boom in terms of spend, and that is something that we have to manage.
But if you were to continue with the model that you talked about,
the half goes to
new generation tax
and
interest payments and so on, and then
a certain amount left for distribution.
If you carry that model, you should still be able to continue doing that and pull
the prices down because you're saying it will cost less.
Not necessarily going to cost less.
I mean, the cost to keep building power plants-
I understand that, yeah
... keeps growing.
Yeah. But you're saying the forward market looks as though it's going to come down.
The forward market is coming down.
So therefore, it should come down.
The wholesale price is coming down.
Yeah. And look, can I just, before I go to Scott, the other thing is, and it's very
hard because your profit in the last two years has changed so
dramatically. Basically, there isn't one in the last year.
Yeah.
But if I took
the 2023/24 year, which didn't
include, of course, the winter of 2024.
So your revenue was $3.4 billion.
Your net profit
after tax was 290, so that's a bit less than 10% of that.
And then you're saying roughly, in a normal year, I know dividends get equalized
over time, that a quarter of that 10%, so about
2.5%, will be going or 2% will be
going in dividends.
Yeah.
So-
What we talk about-
Not 25
... is the difference between EBITDA and profit.
So what we're saying is-
By no means.
He was doing it higher up.
Yeah. Take the revenue, subtract the cost-
You'll be doing it from EBITDA.
Correct.
Okay.
Yeah.
Right. Well, if that's the case, your EBITDA is...
Oh, that one doesn't
show the EBITDA. Anyway,
I'll go to Scott now.
Thank you, Chair.
No problem.
So you've talked about
the needs. We know under the mixed ownership model that you're
required to generate a profit.
Yeah, and then I pick up the primaries. Yeah.
I'm wondering whether, given the crisis that we're in and
the hardship that
we're seeing experienced both in the manufacturing business sector,
but particularly in households, whether if
the purpose of the mixed ownership model was to provide public
good over a profit, how long would that take for
a cultural change take place, and what type of-
I think there was an effort there
... strategy would you pivot to, do you think, if you
were required to deliver energy as a
public good rather than required to produce a
profit?
He's asking you, does communism work?
And actually, could you also, in that context, tell us what that would do to the
new generation of investors?
One of the things that, apart from choosing our CEO,
one of the most important things that boards do,
is carefully allocate our owners' capital.
Yeah.
Owners
being the Crown, but also KiwiSaver people, institutional investors,
and the like.
And so where those roads lead you to are
things like project analysis and
ensuring that those projects meet hurdles
so that you are not being inefficient with the way that you
allocate
that capital.
And so that's kind of the foundation
stones of the way that we need to operate.
Now, if we were instructed by legislation not
to have those sort of disciplines, that would be
a dramatic and profound change for us.
But not to, it's not to not have those disciplines, but to
focus on delivering affordable,
accessible energy to the community
rather than to focus on generating profit.
Yeah. So I'd say that it's still,
you're really talking about the trilemma again.
Yeah.
And so ultimately, to be able to build power plants,
that's a cost that is set by us buying
international technology, and someone somewhere has to pay for that.
Mm-hmm.
And so basically, you've got to work out what is the way that that is paid for.
At the moment, that's paid through the model we've got, which we pay for it,
invest in it, and then generate a return that enables us to keep investing.
And then what we do in amongst the affordability component is we really look at
our support for customers in a few different ways.
We provide transparency where we can in terms of billing, so people can understand
what the cost is and where it shows up.
We're looking at providing better options for customers so people have the ability
to move loads, change their behaviors, really important.
And then we target a very certain support for
those that are most vulnerable, as customers.
And so our approach really at the moment is those three things, and making
sure that where we have vulnerable customers, that we're supporting them as much as
possible. And so much so that in the last, now it's nearly two
years, we haven't disconnected any customer for a
credit reason. Now, so whilst we're still a commercial business, we
absolutely acknowledge the impact on a certain portion of New Zealand
society and try to support them as much as possible through those credit
situations.
If I could just do a sup on that, Chair.
One.
Okay.
And then I'm going to go to Tangi, and then I'm going to go to Simon for primary.
Primary is great.
Can I go to primary?
I've got primaries all over the place.
I still go to primary, right?
Back over to you.
Yeah. Thank you.
So-
Eventually
... thank you for that. And so you mentioned that you're providing support to
social retailers.
Everybody wants to. Yeah.
The
work that they're doing is really important in the community, and we're also aware
that,
I think you've given some support to C.
Rotman in previous times to look at
hardship in the community.
Some of the gen tailers provide funding for
those who work at the front line to reduce their
exposure to high electricity prices, to insulate their
homes, to go into homes and really solve problems.
Scott, can we get the question quicker, please?
Is that something that you are also looking at,
putting into a collective fund for an energy
wellbeing network, which is-
Okay. All right. Quick next question
... a proposal from Cessa.
I'm not sure if we're doing that work or not, but certainly we have a team of
people that are looking at what can we do to support affordability, especially
for certain portions of New Zealand that find it tough.
I do know banks do work in that space.
Yep.
No, not quite in that space.
Tangi.
But lines. But I'm happy to take this offline.
Yeah, please keep it offline. And Tangi.
Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you both.
I appreciate that you've said you're a commercial business, you're 51% owned by
the government.
Mr. Hamilton, what was your remuneration for the last financial year?
For FY25, my total remuneration, so my salary was
$1.15 million, which is base salary.
And then my short-term incentive is
50% of that, and was at target, so about 50% of
1.15 million. That's the fixed
portion of my salary. In addition to that, I get KiwiBank payments,
about 3%,
and long-term incentive wasn't paid out last year.
And all of our compensation details are
in the public domain in excruciating detail in our annual report.
And so, Mr. St. John, what was your remuneration for the last financial year?
Oh, shoot. I couldn't
tell you the exact number, but I think it's
$200,000 in-
Yep
... towards $200,000. But again-
221,000.
Pardon? Sorry.
221,000 sound about right?
Yeah.
Okay, so we're talking about significant amounts of remuneration. And Mr.
Hamilton, that was, as I understand it, for a 10-month period of the last financial
year. You
started in September.
Yeah, the 1.15 was an annualized number.
Okay. So folks who are struggling with their household
power bills at the moment will look at those figures and think, "Actually, I'm
feeling the pinch," yet the
people are, by any stretch of the imagination, are being paid pretty good
salaries.
You're responsible for the generation aspect.
I've heard what you've said about the distribution components and what have you.
But what are you actually doing to alleviate the concerns, not
for those who are, as you describe, as vulnerable, because I think
actually there are lots of people in households who wouldn't fit the
traditional definition of vulnerable, but are really struggling right now.
What can they expect to see from
Mercury to make things easier for them that's directly under
your control?
Absolutely. So as I mentioned before, yes, there's that leg, which
is those most vulnerable. The other key aspects of the work
we do with customers is, one, make sure we're super transparent in the bills,
because one of the
big bits of feedback we get from our customers was, "We'd like to understand what
the bill means, how it shows up, so we can best manage
our behavior." That goes to the second key thing we're putting a
lot of time and effort into, is this thing called time of use pricing, which is
having the ability to send signals to customers to say,
"If we're using power at this time of the day, this is what the cost is.
If we use power a different part of the day, the cost will be less." That then
creates, again, more agency or more control, ability for customers to be able
to move their load to best manage the cost of their household.
So you're proactively doing work in that space, though.
Yes.
Are you seeing a significant uptake in consumers making the change and making
it easier for them to make that change?
So at the moment it's pretty high level, but over the next couple of months, the
time of use pricing will be implemented across all of our customer base, and
that will create significant opportunity to be able to move that.
So we will expect to see some change then-
Yeah
... this year.
Yes. I guess.
Okay. Look, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to go to Simon.
Dana hasn't asked a question, then I'm going to go back to Megan.
Okay.
And then I'll go to Scott. You asked lots of questions.
They might have all been subs, but there was a lot of questions.
So I'm trying to divvy it up and then I'll go to Carlos. Right, Simon.
But let's try and keep the questions tight, not speeches, please.
Sorry.
So I'm interested, given
your opening remarks, you said the last time you were here was off the back of a
dry year. We'd seen power prices
spike to around $800 a megawatt hour.
And many industries were looking at their electricity
costs and saying, "It's not possible for us to stay in
business," or, "We have to reduce production."
Pretty tough time.
So how does that contrast with the situation we're in now, and
how does the announcement of an LNG terminal
deal with dry year risk and some of those scarcity risks that
were
previously impacting wholesale prices?
Yes, there's probably a couple of questions in that.
So the first one really around what are we seeing with commercial industrial
prices. We're actually seeing one of the main behaviors that is changing is the
length of term that customers are signing up for.
So if we go back a few years ago, our average length of term for a small or
medium business or a industrial customer was about three
years. That's now on average around five years.
So we're seeing that customers are signing up for longer terms to create,
I guess, more certainty,
and actually enable them toGet on with doing the work that they do to keep New
Zealand running. So it's sort of one of the key things we see.
And a number of the contracts we're signing up are actually much longer, they're
like 10, 15, 20 years.
Oh, wow.
Some really great industrial customers, whether they're packaging, whether they're
paper products,
dairy. You can imagine who they might be.
And they're certainly signing up for long long-term time frames.
That's really good for us because it means we can now get on and
build with that certainty, and also good for the customer as well.
Okay. And so, the second part of the question was around,
do you see
any benefits or have you seen... What is the
response you've seen to the-
Yeah
... announcement that the government's going to commit to an LNG terminal?
And how do you see that dealing with scarcity,
and long-term security of supply?
Yeah. Again, the problem that's trying to be resolved is the seasonal swings that
happen in our hydro-based electricity system.
So LNG is a concept we're broadly supportive of.
It's a bit hard to know yet because not all the details are available in terms of
what that looks like. But certainly supportive of what it's trying to do, which is
to create an insurance for that
infrequent but quite significant impact,
which, for example, sort of like in the August 2024 timeframe, for
example.
Our take on it is that is a solution which could work,
depending on what we see in terms of the cost and so forth.
But it shouldn't chill the work that needs to take place to look at
other alternative options. And that could include things like
rooftop solar, could include looking at biomass, could
include looking at
forms of,
dare I say it, a GE 2.0, something which actually supports
businesses to move away from gas. Because even though the LNG terminal
is there primarily to support the electricity dry year problem,
one of the big issues we have in New Zealand is that indigenous gas is dropping
away very, very quickly.
Mm.
And we have to be able to support those customers who use that gas to run their
businesses.
One way to do that is to help electrification,
and that's something that we're keen to understand and support.
We're doing some sort of test tube trials with some customers
trying to facilitate some of that.
Okay.
Okay. So you mentioned GE and GE 2.0.
That was a scheme where funds that could otherwise have been
used to build hospitals, schools, I don't know, maybe pay for a
couple more frigates,
was instead diverted to the private sector, to
businesses to convert from gas or coal to
electricity. Are you suggesting that the government
should consider diverting taxpayer funds to-
No
... buy industrial infrastructure for the private sector?
No. I think what I'm suggesting is that we need to look at how do we
support those particularly small to medium enterprises,
who may not be able to afford to do it.
Whilst the gas price is going up and the availability is dropping down, how
do we help those businesses transition from gas to electricity?
And-
Well, isn't that your role, by pricing it accordingly, offering them 15-year
long-term deals? Is that right?
But there's a capital cost for the conversion as well, right?
Yeah.
So definitely there's a supply of electricity, and that's absolutely what
we can do. It's that capital cost for the conversion which needs some
support. And whether that's an industry-based fund or something else,
that's something for us to have a conversation around.
It's really trying to work out how do we help small to medium businesses in New
Zealand transition away from gas and to electrify.
Okay. Thanks.
I've got one question for Dan, then I'm going to leave it.
Yeah.
It's actually around the same issue. So thank you, Simon.
I think
Frontier Economics report makes it clear the key issue is around dry
year risk, and Mercury's substantially exposed
to those risks. So you've mentioned you're broadly
supportive of LNG.
You've mentioned electrification as an alternative, as something.
Does Mercury have any other ideas around what else should we be
doing? What other alternatives? We're not hearing many alternatives from-
No
...
other political parties. But keen to get a sense from you on
what else we should be doing to help address that key
risk.
Yeah. And it is a fundamental question that we need to resolve.
And with that doesn't come a silver bullet. It really needs a number of solutions.
And so the work that we've looked at in terms of in the dry year,
how do we buy it, it's really been defined quite nicely as two to
three terawatt-hours of energy that's needed to overcome those dry periods.
I won't call them dry years because actually you can have these multiple periods in
a year. And that's going to be made up from a number of factors.
One is we keep building
power plants as we can.
We just started and opened a new geothermal plant
a month or two ago, another 50 megawatts on the system.
So that's really, really important to keep doing that.
Secondly is to make sure that we do have some form of firming
access available. That's the sort of work that we've done as an industry
over the Huntly Firming Option. That's been really, really important.
The third thing is to have access to some demand response,
and that is things like significant demand response like
Tiwai has in place now.
And there is some other work which we can do,
and include things like looking at other forms of distributed energy production,
like solar, for example. And the final one, which we're doing quite a lot of work
on, is making sure that we're managing lake levels and managing the risk of
that.
Mm.
And so over the last couple of years, we've actually set
our risk settings. So we actually look to keep
our lake level, which is Lake Taupo, a little bit higher as we hit the start of the
year, so it gives us a bit more length, so we're better able to manage some of
those dry periods that come along.
Mm.
There's another one which some of the other gen tailers are talking to, which is
looking at the levels in lakes.
And the ability to be able to go slightly lower during those dry periods-
Mm-hmm
... called contingent storage and access to that, that's
potentially another factor that's being looked at as well.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you. And I think this issue of firming and storage,
no one disagrees with the problem definition.
In fact, it was the whole basis of the New Zealand Battery project and all of the
options that were in there, that unfortunately that work was
canceled in 2023,
in terms of looking at what those options would be for New Zealand.
And I guess when we think about the dry year risk, what
proportion of electricity in
firmed electricity did Mercury buy that cost $800 a
megawatt hour?
Roughly, ballpark.
Well, I don't know in terms of gigawatt hours or terawatt hours
our exposure over that timeframe, but certainly during that time,
I'd have to give the numbers back to you.
That would be great-
Yeah
... if you could come back to us on that.
Yeah.
And just in terms of some of the other things that you talked about that you're
doing, I think that'd be really good for the committee just to know a bit more
exactly what you are doing in geothermal, because-
Yeah
... as you say in the materials you've given the committee, that the cheapest form
of energy we can produce is our renewable.
And in terms of what they look like in geothermal, New Zealand
has a huge advantage in having a renewable
thermal baseload-
Yeah
... in firming products. So what you're doing in that space and what the plans are.
Also, the work that you're doing around grid-scale batteries, your
BESS project.
Yes.
But also really keen to hear about the
50,000 water cylinder-
Yes
... project, the smarts-
Yep
... management of those, and the potential impact for consumers,
and what you can do to push that out even further.
Yeah.
Which is a third of people's carpets.
Correct. And the key thing of that you're talking to is that there's actually a
multiple-
Yeah
... bunch of solutions which actually-
Yeah.
Which we think is key for a country like New Zealand, which
is we can't tap into anybody else's grid.
It's making sure we have a multiple diversified options.
Okay.
Sorry, I can't hear with Simon's talking.
So just in terms of the geothermal-
So geothermal?
Yeah.
Yes. So geothermal for us is very exciting,
for Mercury, for New Zealand.
So we just started our 50 megawatt
expansion of one of our stations in January.
That's enough to power about 50,000 homes.
Yeah.
So it's pretty significant. We have potentially inside Mercury's
portfolio, we've shared about five terawatt hour of potential
growth opportunities over the next 15 to 20 years.
And what would it take to bring those on stream?
Yeah. So that's
roughly you're looking at about every terawatt hour to build is
about a billion dollars of investment.
It's a pretty rough rule of thumb.
Yeah.
And so that's from a capital perspective.
The big block, not the blocker, big challenge for us is with geothermal,
it's quite a lot of exploration that has to go on. So you're drilling.
And so our main focus at the moment is going to what we call brownfield sites
or operations that are already in existence, that we know them pretty
well, we know the reservoirs well.
We have really good partnerships with our whenua trusts and looking at
how we expand those fields. And that's certainly a big focus for us in the short
term.
Then the medium term is really around greenfields exploration.
So going to areas that we think have strong potential and drilling there.
And then the sort of third horizon is looking at next
generation or enhanced forms of geothermal.
That could include things like super hot, super critical.
There's other enhanced forms of geothermal that
actually we've had the privilege of talking to some international groups that are
doing that, whether it's Iceland, and the US.
And that's very interesting and something that we're keeping a close eye on in
terms of innovation in that space.
But it doesn't stop us from continuing with the conventional geothermal, which has
a lot of potential for New Zealand.
And we'll have a lot more to say on this in a couple of weeks.
We're holding a geothermal investor-
Sorry, you're holding a?
... investor day. Geothermal investor day in a few weeks time,
and we'll have a lot more information that I think you'll find quite
helpful.
So just a quick follow there. Where are you seeking to
bring in investment? What is the investment you're looking to bring in, in the
geothermal space?
We're just communicating with our investors as to what our long-term
thinking is.
Right. I see. Okay.
Yeah. So it'll basically, 14th of May, basically sets out our plans
over the next sort of 10 to 15 years for geothermal growth.
Okay. Fantastic. And just a quick update on the BESS project.
Yes.
And any more grid-scale batteries that you're looking at putting
on stream.
Yes. We have a 300 megawatt grid-scale battery consented at
Whakamaru.
Yeah.
And so our expectation is that over the next
18 months, that'll go to final investment decision,
for build following that.
So certainly in the next couple of years, we're likely to start building
our grid-scale battery in phases, probably starting at 100 megawatts,
but potentially up to 300 megawatts.
Yep. And the water heater.
Water heater. Yeah. So that has been a really great trial.
And so as mentioned, about 50,000 homes where we've
got that in place for winter of 2026, so this winter, which is great.
And certainly keen to keep working with the lines companies to actually keep
rolling that out.
Remind me what region, are you doing that across New Zealand or?
Across New Zealand. But there's actually a really good trial happening with
Orion-
Yeah.
... in particular. And so it's
really interesting because it actually requires the coordination of retailers,
EDBs and households. But it's a great thing to be doing.
Yeah.
Okay.
Scott, yeah, just a follow up one then I'll go Carlos.
Yeah. Thank you and really appreciate your description of the portfolio
approach solutions.
Coming back
To the question of certainty in the market, and we talked about structural
separation, et cetera. How are you dealing with the uncertainty that on
again, off again, on again, on slow,
on again, off again-
We're not
... probably off of LEG, the-
What do you mean by that?
...
age of Huntly closing in '35. Those are
big uncertainty questions. Offshore wind, that's going to come in
almost certainly. So these are big questions that
you would put in that uncertainty basket as well.
How are you managing those types of bigger questions?
Yeah. Broadly, a really good question, but because
for us, it really is managing the risk over the long timeframe.
And so one of the ways we actually manage that is through contracting.
So for example, the wind farm that we're building in Southland at the
moment, just between Gore and Invercargill, it's called Koaro Downs.
That project is being built because we're contracted to TI for
20 years, and so we put in place a 20-year power
purchase agreement, PPA, with TI for 75 megawatts.
That then gives us the confidence that we've got a form of revenue for 20 years.
And then off the back of that, we've been able to commit to and build a wind farm,
which will hopefully be here for much longer than 20 years.
And so where possible, we try to look at backing up big
investments and projects with some form of long-term agreement.
Doesn't always work because we've got lots of customers, some small as well,
but it's really trying to make sure that when we're putting at risk our
owners' capital, we're doing it in a way which is backed with some long-term form
of certainty to underpin that investment.
Sorry.
Simon. Sorry, not Simon. Carlos.
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, Chair.
Just a simple question from my constituent.
Can you explain what exactly, what costs
covering in the daily fixed charge?
What? Sorry, what?
Sorry, can you explain-
The daily fixed charge.
Can I start again? Can you explain to us
exactly what cost the daily fixed charge is
covering, and why is it so different between different plan,
like from $1.70 to $3.32 per day?
Yeah. And ultimately there are-- It's a good question as well, because there are
multiple different plans available from different suppliers of
electricity, and those plans will suit some customers better than others.
So some plans will have more in fixed charges and less
in the variable charge. Some plans might have more in variable charge, less in
fixed charge. And so I'd really encourage people, when there's a new...
There's a couple of websites out there now, which the EA has just launched one
called Billy recently as well, as a chance to really understand and dig into what
matches your household load best with different suppliers.
In terms of what actually goes into them, it varies a bit.
So as a concept, generally you'll find that the fixed
charges are there to cover some of the fixed costs.
So regardless of how much electricity you're using at your house, there's
still cost of a fixed transmission line and a distribution
line to get to your house. So that really has to be, the cost of
running that and maintaining that needs to be managed regardless of how much power
you're using. And the variable cost is linked directly to how much
power that you're consuming in your household.
So there are some differences, but just as a concept, that's
kind of what's being looked at. It's managing what are the fixed costs to get
electricity to your household, whether you're consuming anything or not, because
there are some infrastructure costs to do that.
And then the variable cost really is the electrons that
you're currently consuming with your lights or your washing machine, trying to be
reflective of that.
Yeah. So when you mentioned that there's a fixed cost, why is this so
different?
Yeah. So different plans will exist because you might be in a different part of
New Zealand, and so the cost to maintain or get the
distribution lines, the transmission to you could be different.
No, I mean on the same address.
Yeah.
Why if I choose different plan-
Okay
... the fixed charge is so different, because you mentioned that this is the fixed
charge.
Yeah.
It's fixed.
Yeah. So again, it comes down to
some customers and some plans therefore make more sense by
having a variable component versus the fixed component.
Yes, but on the other side, you're already charging different price on the
unit price. So you shouldn't changing the fixed price as well.
Yeah.
Basically, so if you have a household that doesn't consume any power-
Yes
... there is still a cost to give power to the household.
So this mean what I say, no matter how much power they use, the
fixed cost or there's the cost of collecting to the household
is the same. So why some houses get charged more than the others?
Because you already covered that cost in your unit price.
Yeah. So again, it come down to say that,
that is the
approach generally, but still there are different approaches for different
bills that are made up that go out to customers.
So it's ultimately trying to find what is the best way for you as a household
to advise-
And there's probably different competitive approaches by different
players in the market.
Yep. So you might find that Mercury might put more of its costs
across in the variable versus fixed.
Mm-hmm.
A different retailer might have a different way of approaching that and providing a
different product into the market.
So I actually look into this matter a bit more.
With the high electricity cost, some household are trying to save money
by reducing the power usage. Do you think the current balance
between the fixed charges and per unit charges of the
pricing discourage small energy saving effort
by making modest reduction in usage financially
insignificant for most household?
So as your question,
do I think that the current-Different pricing
mechanisms that are out there
There's a system between fixed cost and-
Yeah, different choices
... I think a unit price and that discourage
some small energy saving-
I don't think so. There's quite a lot of switching that takes place
between different retailers and retailers in New Zealand,
so I think there's plenty of opportunities for people to look at those.
I don't think it necessarily discourages it because there is switching, and the
time-of-use pricing models that we're going to bring in actually support some of
that further.
Dan, you've got a very quick one on that one.
Thank you.
I guess-
I'm waiting to speak.
Yeah. Picking up on him,
Carlos's comment.
Quicker question.
It is confusing for a lot of customers around pricing in the sector, and
that's why we've got the Customer Product Data Bill that will be
hopefully trying to improve that.
Standardize them. Yeah.
Can you give us a sense of what Mercury's doing to help standardize and
simplify pricing structures for customers?
And secondly, in terms of switching, give us a sense of how many
switched from Mercury to another-
Mm
... and how many have switched from another to Mercury.
Yeah, sure. So maybe I'll start with that second one first.
So,
typically, we call it churn rate, which is the customers that
turn, change suppliers in a given year.
Industry average is somewhere between 15 to 20%.
So that means 15, 20% of customers are changing-
Per year
... per year.
Yeah.
So-
Where does Mercury sit on that?
Mercury's a little bit lower. We're around 13 to 14%.
Yeah.
And it also is linked into how many products you have with
Mercury as well. So because Mercury is selling
electricity,
gas, and also telco products, we're the fourth largest telco
supplier in New Zealand.
So you could have broadband or mobile as well.
That also might impact the amount of customers that turn as well, because
if you've got more products with us, then you're comparing different sort of
aspects.
So what is Mercury doing to improve standardization,
simplification of-
Yeah
... pricing of products?
So we're working very closely with the EA and trying to make sure that we
are providing a bill which is as clear as possible.
Yeah.
Actually, in many instances, some of the way that Mercury currently has its bill
will set the standard. So I'm pretty proud of the work that our team has been doing
to really lay out those costs pretty simply.
Yeah.
But it's really important to make sure we can do that further.
Thank you.
So the time of use plan come out, it's great news.
You could argue it's been a long time coming, because this has the
potential to save consumers a lot of money.
Yeah.
What will you be doing to proactively move
customers onto time of use plans to save money?
Yeah. And there's actually going to be some further requirements, I understand, of
us to make sure that... Yeah, I think just trying to remember the frequency.
Might be every six months, maybe it's every year, to make sure that customers
are on the best plan for their consumption.
Right.
I think that's something that's coming through the EA at the moment.
So certainly, there's expectation on us to make sure that we do help to
communicate customers based on their consumption, what the best sort of
product plans for them could be.
That's right.
Yeah.
Just another quick one. In terms of PPAs with
industrials-
Yes
...
are you seeing any growth in that sector at the moment?
Yes. Yes. There's definitely, as I mentioned, there's a few which we're signing up
for quite long-term periods, for example.
So we just signed up early this year, Whakatane Mill-
... for a long-term PPA. We've signed the likes of Vizzy,
which is a packaging-
And is that a demand response contract?
No. No, they're not.
Okay.
They're just straight PPAs. They have different shapes to them depending
on the load that's being consumed, but there's no demand response associated with
them.
Okay.
We're seeing a number of PPAs that are being requested, and we
provide prices to anyone that comes to us.
Thank you.
Welcome. Two questions from me. Just in terms of going back to that
long-term price trajectory, you've said
that in your supplementary, or the answers we got before
the
session, "Over time, Mercury expects..." This is in question 12.
"Over time, Mercury expects wholesale market prices will come down as indicated by
the three-year ASX curve." Prosecuting this one again a little bit.
So if the wholesale price is going to come down,
how does that then turn into a price for both
industrial and home-
Yep
... consumers?
Yeah. So there, the wholesale price, about a year ago,
when you look at the price three years out, it was about $170
megawatt hour.
So that's now... A year ago, the three-year price was 170.
Yeah, correct. So let's say price in 2029.
If you were trying to buy some power in 2029 last year, you would've been buying it
for about $170 per megawatt, 175. If you're trying to buy
power in 2029 now on the ASX market, it's $130,
131 as of yesterday. So there's definitely
signals that are suggesting that
longer-term price is coming down.
And we actually, our belief, and this is how we look at
investing, is that we believe the long-term price of
electricity will come back down towards that $120 per megawatt hour
mark, which is roughly the cost it takes to build a new wind
farm, something similar.
So that's certainly our belief, and that's something which we
make investment of our owners' money
in projects on that basis.
Okay. So my point is, how does that then translate through?
That's the wholesale price.
Yes.
That's what the curve says. Okay. How does that then end up translating through
to what the residential consumer, the industrial consumer-
Yep
... as they would buy their power?
So it's much faster in terms of translating to
consumer industrial, because they typically will sign up for a contract for
difference, a CFD or a PPA.
So what that looks like is often they're looking over long-term, and so if you're
trying to sign up for a contract now for three to five
years-That wholesale price in the future
actually directly links to the price they're likely to get today.
So you'll see that very quickly.
Price for households, it's a little bit more smooth, takes a little more time,
but certainly we expect that with that price coming down the wholesale
perspective, it will flow through to households, particularly through
competition.
If you've got the competition in the market means that we're buying electricity for
cheaper prices, then that competition should lead to competition on retail
pricing.
Particularly with a 20% share, because for most
commercial markets, 20% share is actually
not an insignificant number.
And to take Megan's question, you will be proactive about
communicating that. If you've got a whole bunch of customers on
this price-
Yeah
... and we're actually starting going for new customers at a lower price, you will
be communicating that so that people can say, "Actually, now I can move."
I want to change my plan.
Yeah. Okay, cool. Second question I had was just around the
costs and benefits for each type of generation.
You've got the next question you had down there.
The respective cost. Now, from what I've seen is that the cheapest,
again, it's boiler plate
number is solar. But when you factor in
that it only operates less than 20% of the time, so there's
20% of that capacity.
Yeah.
Actually, the numbers I saw was geothermal was actually cheaper.
So can you just walk us through-
We're not investing in solar at all.
Sorry, you're not investing solar at all?
No.
Yeah.
But certainly you're right. The way we see it is because you have to build a
project, whether that's a solar panel or a wind turbine or a geothermal
plant, that's one thing. But customers
will be consuming power at a different profile to what's been produced.
Yeah.
So by the time you take the cost to build the project, but then firm it,
which means making sure that the power is available for customers when they want
it, that cost of firming can be quite significant.
Yeah.
And so when you incorporate the cost of firming with the cost of
production, our belief is that geothermal is the most valuable
for New Zealand, followed by onshore wind, followed by solar,
and then probably offshore wind after that.
And we obviously have, from what you said earlier about five terawatts,
that there is a lot of capacity still for geothermal.
We believe so. As I said, five terawatts is a mercury.
That's certainly a mercury potential opportunity, and there are other,
I guess, developers in New Zealand who will be seeking further than that.
Yeah. Well aware of that. Scott, I'll give you last couple honest.
Thank you. So
thinking about some of our most vulnerable customers who are on the gas
network, your gas network-
We've got one minute left
... we've heard about the UK did the big switch. They assisted.
What are you thinking in terms of a gas transition plan to assist households
who will face big costs to electrify when they've got gas
appliances and gas is no longer available or becomes too expensive?
What's your plans then? Do you think the government needs to be
there to help, say, with a big switch program?
It is an issue for us we're working through.
I don't think we've got the solution at hand now, and I suspect it's going to take
an industry response to be able to do that.
And certainly,
the team, Katherine behind me, and others that are working through how do we come
up with solutions to support that transition away from gas,
whether that's households and businesses.
I don't think we've got a clear answer for that yet, and I think we need to work
through it.
Thank you.
Scott, I think I really appreciate that. It's taken us to time.
We really appreciate the discussion.
There may be some follow-up questions that get sent through-
Perfect
... which is our normal process.
We've already got some plans.
Sorry?
But we've got some-
And we've got a little bit of information you were going to provide us as well.
Yeah.
But we really appreciate that, and thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Colleagues, we are scheduled to take a break till 1:30,
so you've got the 10 minutes, which was
demanded.
Well done.
Demanded, and we've met it.
Thank you, Scott, for keeping us to time.
Yes. You have one more minute I was going to give you, because I'm going to be
generous.